---
id: 27
title: "Videos & role playing by Jérôme Berger"
description_short: The teacher uses an academic coaching approach, encouraging students to take charge of their learning, promoting critical thinking and reflection in small groups. The evaluation is done on computer with access to research tools, simulating real working conditions.
---

## Initial situation

The aim of this course is to provide students with the practical knowledge they need to manage patients who come to the pharmacy. Evaluations of the course revealed that it was too dense in theory. To remedy this, the teachers not only decided to deal with fewer topics and concentrate on cross-disciplinary skills, but also to intersperse the theoretical sessions with practical teaching videos. To break up the monotony of the theoretical course, after presenting a theoretical aspect, the teachers also introduced moments of practical application with role-playing.
The goal was to get away from the traditional frontal lecture format in order to make teaching more dynamic, motivate students and help them gain autonomy in their learning. To do this, the teacher wanted to try out group work and peer feedback.
Students are afraid of failure, of not getting the credits for a course, which is a barrier to their learning. At the beginning of the academic year, some students are more motivated to find a strategy to obtain the minimum grade to validate their credits than to really take an interest in the course content. The teacher therefore wanted to find a way to really get students interested in learning. The proposed teaching integrates individual work on intrinsic personal motivation in order to stimulate participation and involvement of the students during the course and outside the course.

## Project implementation

This module prepares students to manage patients in the pharmacy. Previously, it was taught over the course of a month, after all the previous theoretical modules (breathing, inflammation, nutrition and digestion, etc.), so that students could build on the knowledge they had already acquired. Now, in coordination with the teachers of the previous modules, the teachers spread their teaching out more over the semester and set up teaching days to share the hours between practice and theory and coordinate the modules.
During the theoretical presentations, the teachers illustrate some of the points with teaching videos that they have produced themselves. These videos present case studies based on observation grids structuring the various situations that pharmacists may encounter when a patient arrives at the pharmacy. These grids are then used throughout the pharmacy curriculum to structure the teaching of clinical practice in the dispensary. One of the videos shows a case of triage, i.e. when someone comes to the pharmacy without a prescription. The other video shows a case of prescription validation, when a patient comes in after a medical consultation. Another video was also produced to present a counter-example: the pharmacist does not ask any questions and simply provides the medication on the prescription. The students then have to identify the missing elements and suggest a more appropriate attitude.
Soon enough, after a few theory sessions, the teachers added role-playing to the course. In the first session, the teacher plays the patient and the students take on the role of pharmacist. Then, in the auditorium, the students are divided into groups of 3 and take on the roles of patient, pharmacist and observer. The patient or pharmacist receives a quick briefing on the situation at hand (information to give, questions to ask). This is followed by a 10-minute role-play. During this activity, the teacher moves from group to group to answer questions. At the end of the interaction, the students debrief in small groups and then in the audience: the observers give the actors and actresses feedback on their performance using the observation grids provided.
The course is assessed in the form of a MCQ, shared with the other modules; 15 questions out of 40 are devoted to this teaching, as well as five short questions - short answers.
First, the teacher provides a "Frequently Asked Questions" document that lays out the basics of the course and its format. Following the principles of academic coaching, she encourages students to formulate their own learning outcomes within the course. It encourages them to leave the role of simple consumer and become an actor in their academic career. To this end, students sign a learning agreement. Then, regularly during the course, she encourages them to develop their critical sense in terms of learning, but also in terms of personal development. In particular, she regularly encourages them to engage in meta-reflection. The goal is to truly focus on oneself, one's personal progress, to enrich one's own learning, all in an atmosphere of mutual trust and non-judgment.
The structure of each session is normally fixed, although it can be adapted to the needs of the students. This gives them a framework and a sense of stability that helps to build trust. Sometimes, some exercises are dropped if the majority of students consider them useless. Following the model of the flipped classroom, students come to class having completed readings, a translation, and a translation review based on a question grid. They are also invited to write down one or more points of their personal questioning. The course often begins with a short activity (quiz, reading, sight translation), conducted independently. This allows the first arrivals to immerse themselves in the subject without waiting. The students then work in groups (3-4) to think about translation problems based on the work done at home and the question grid developed by the teacher. They compare their solutions, enrich each other's thinking, criticize their proposals and develop new ones. In translation, as in the social sciences and humanities, there is never only one possible answer. The objective is to provide students with tools for reflection, to develop their critical sense, to feed their curiosity and thus to motivate them to deepen their reflections. The small groups are not fixed and are reconstituted weekly in a random manner or according to the specific needs of the session. A feedback session with the whole class allows the teacher to take up one or two key questions during which students are invited to speak at any time. As a general conclusion, the teacher often asks students for very short feedback (sometimes only one word) on the content of the course in the manner of the "One Minute Paper". This allows her to "take the pulse" of the class, to create cohesion within the class and to give students the opportunity to reflect on what they have learned. She regularly brings back anecdotes from her own professional practice to stimulate and engage the students.
The assessment form (a translation) is also innovative. It is done on a computer with access to research tools and the Internet more or less restricted depending on whether it is a seminar paper or the end of semester exam. This format reinforces the coherence and authenticity between the examination conditions and the real working conditions (e.g., aptitude tests to be carried out in the context of an assignment).

## Thoughts and advice

The teachers point out that designing videos is quite time-consuming. The biggest part of the work is writing the scripts. Scripts written for previous examination sessions were used as a basis, with the remainder written in collaboration with the teacher responsible for health communication. The content of the videos had to be carefully targeted. It's important that the content doesn't change too quickly from year to year, at the risk of having to redo them every year.
Finding actors can also be complicated. The solution adopted by the teachers was to turn to experienced students. Previously, the teachers themselves would perform the scenes live in front of the students. Introducing videos into the course allows them to work on the observation grids alongside the videos, which was not possible when they were playing one of the roles.
The teachers note that it is a little early to judge the contribution of the videos in comparison with the effort and investment of time they have required. However, these videos are already used in another course and could be used from the first year of the bachelor's degree. In fact, they provide an opportunity to show students how a "case study" case is handled.
Finally, it may be pointed out that the MCQ format is not the most suitable for assessing the course. However, the course provides preparation for the federal pharmacy examination, which takes place after the university course and takes the form of a clinical examination for which the students must conduct the interview and structure their case management using an approach similar to that of the observation grid that they will already have experienced.
In the interest of fairness and consistency, the teacher makes herself available by offering one hour of office time each week. She emphasizes the need to be motivated, flexible and capable of adapting to the work objectives set by the students. The teacher adopts a posture in which she does not directly provide answers to questions but stimulates individual and small group reflection. Each student must be able to develop his or her own answers and learn to support them. In order to carry out a pedagogical project of this type, one must above all know how to ask the right questions, be open-minded, not be afraid to question oneself and one's own pedagogical practices, which is extremely rich from a personal perspective.

## Student feedback

> "The sessions are well structured, the small group reflection and the debriefing with the translation proposal promote learning. Not correcting sentence by sentence allows you to break away from the text and target the real translation problems while avoiding copying."
> "I think the teaching methods are excellent. I learn a lot not only from the teacher, but also from my classmates during group work. The texts we translate are always extremely varied: they deal with different themes, are of different lengths, require more or less research, etc. This allows us to 'try out everything'.  I am personally "against" the "sentence-by-sentence correction" method. Not that it is bad, but it has its limitations. Thanks to the method of this course, I have the opportunity to think much more deeply about translation and to constantly question myself. I even come to "like" being wrong, as it enriches mightily intellectually. I also always enjoy explaining my translation problems. I find it a very relevant and useful exercise.
> "The course is extremely dynamic. The group work is motivating. The French quizzes that we sometimes do are very interesting. I really appreciate the fact that the difficulty of the texts has been increasing, so we have been able to immerse ourselves smoothly. Also, I really appreciate the fact that we focused so much on translation problems rather than comprehension problems, because to me a translation course is much more instructive if we learn to translate rather than decode an excessively difficult text."
> "I really like the structure of the course. Working in small groups has made me discover the power of collective intelligence, and the little cards made to guide us allow me to ask myself the right questions, without being directly told what is right or wrong. I think this is the right technique to help us progress. Reviewing my translations is also an exercise that helps me improve. Too often in the past, I have left out translations that were corrected in class without asking more questions. The seminar assignment was, in my opinion, a success. It made us realize the real working conditions of a translator."

