---
id: 28
title: "Anna Sfyrla's demo & videos"
description_short: The teacher uses live demonstrations and videos to make the lesson more interactive. The exercise sessions were reorganized with students presenting their solutions in front of the class, which improved exam results.
---

## Initial situation

This course was previously taught as a slide-based ex cathedra course, with live demonstrations of physical phenomena enhancing the course. The teacher who took over this course really appreciated the use of the demonstrations, but she was not comfortable with the rest of the format. The presentation of text-heavy slides made her feel a lack of interaction with the students. While keeping the demonstrations concrete, she attempted to make the course livelier and more dynamic for herself and the students.

## Project implementation

This general physics course is presented in the form of weekly 4 hours of lectures and 2 hours of exercise sessions. The teacher has innovated in these two types of activities.
The live demonstration of physical phenomena is particularly stimulating for the students. It has been kept in the new course format with an average of 1 to 3 experiments per session. The necessary equipment is made available by a technician upon the teacher's request. The teacher can, for example, demonstrate to the students how to measure the gravitational force or have them observe the uniform rectilinear motion with the help of a train launched on a rail.
The ex-cathedra format of the course has been changed so that it is divided into chapters that the teacher makes available to students at the beginning of the semester. Each chapter usually corresponds to the material studied for one week (4 hours in class and 2 hours of exercises). Students must read the chapters before coming to class. The teacher presents the most important notions in the form of slides (a graph or a key notion) that she completes directly in front of the students using an iPad. This format is very much appreciated by the students who receive the slides before the class and can complete them during the class, but also receive those completed by the teacher which she makes available on Moodle after the class.
The course is also punctuated by quizzes in class at an average of 3 per class. The votes are taken by a show of hands, a format that the teacher considers more active and simpler than using an application. They allow students to check that they have correctly understood the concepts covered and to go back directly to those that require it.
The teacher also uses videos as support for the course. She offers long videos on Moodle, such as Ted-Ed Talks, to deepen the notions of the course, but also other, shorter videos, used to make the course more dynamic. For example, instead of listing Newton's 3 laws by themselves, they are presented through a 4-minute video in the form of cartoons. These videos not only make the course more dynamic, but also take less time to explain concepts in a more concise way. This leaves more time for questions.
In addition to the 4 hours of classes given every week, students are offered 2 hours of exercises. In view of the decreasing number of students attending these sessions, the teacher has chosen to innovate the format. They are now given by 5 different assistants in groups of 25 students on average. Previously, the students completed the exercises offered each week (8 on average) during the exercise session while being supervised by the assistants. Now, students are responsible for solving some of the exercises (3 or 4) at home prior to the session. The assistants consult these exercises at the beginning of the session before quickly presenting the most important notions for solving the exercises. Students then have about 20 minutes, in groups of 5, to prepare an exercise. Then, one student from each group presents the exercise solved by his/her group to the class. The whole process of preparation and presentation, carried out by different students each week, allows students to receive a bonus of 0.5 points for the exam. This method motivates students to participate in the exercises and generates an increased success rate on the exams.

## Thoughts and advice

Concerning the course part, the teacher points out that the transition to such a format requires a lot of investment during the first year of the course in order to revise the slides in a note version to be given to the students. It is also important to review the slides before each class and to define precisely the information to be added on them during the class in order to avoid possible overflow and spending too much time on certain subjects. The introduction of quizzes is less time consuming; it only requires targeting the questions of interest.
Regarding the exercise session, the teacher emphasizes that the success of this type of format depends a lot on the assistant and the number of students in class. It is important that he/she demonstrates a motivation to engage in teaching practices and to clearly define the content to be covered and the time to be devoted to each activity.
Student feedback
"The fact that the professor writes her notes at the same time as we do helps us to follow the course. In addition, the experiments we do also help us to understand the subject. The quizzes also allow us to know if we have understood the concepts, which helps us to follow the course."
"The course is currently, probably thanks to the experience of other academic years, in an excellent balance between, theoretical knowledge, exercises and practical demonstrations."
"The quizzes allow you to quickly put some of the concepts into practice, which helps you to better understand their potential uses."
"The fact that we did some of the exercises before arriving at the session allows us to follow the exercise session without any problems. Also, having the correction done partly by us, while having an assistant helping us on the side is very good, as it helps us a lot. Lastly, the fact that there is a bonus at the end forces us to make the effort to be present and participate, which in the end helps us a lot, because we can follow the course through the exercise session."
"I partially read the notes before class (often to complete the exercises) and it helps to grasp the concepts before going into them in depth in class."
"The lecture notes are a great help. They complement the course perfectly. Reading them before a presentation provides a new tool for understanding the material."

