---
id: 53
title: "Pamela Ohen-Nyako's Learning Community"
description_short: This seminar offers an interactive approach to teaching, encouraging group discussions and active student participation. It offers activities such as expressing expectations and goals, reading articles with the surveying method, individual research on their topic, oral presentations with feedback and stimulating role plays.
---

## Initial situation

Since the content of the seminar is purely methodological, the challenge was to present it in such a way as to interest and engage students from several disciplines. This seminar is taught in parallel with the introductory course in international history, but is completely independent in terms of content. The objective is to sensitize students to the particularities of research methodology in international history.
Project implementation
The students are divided into 3 groups for the seminar, which are shared by 2 teachers. Since this year, the starting syllabus and the structure are identical for all groups, but the way of approaching the subject is specific to each teacher.
The seminar consists of two main parts of 6 weeks each. During the first part, the teacher presents the theory related to the methodology while proposing practical exercises which take place either in class or at home and which are compulsory to return. This part provides students with the tools, approaches and methods of the historian. These will allow students to gradually develop their own research topic, chosen at the beginning of the seminar from a list proposed by the teacher. The second part of the seminar is reserved for the presentation of the students' research work, as well as oral feedback between colleagues.
The seminar is organized in an interactive way, the teacher encourages group exercises and collective discussions. èreDuring the first session, for example, she asks students to write down on yellow and orange Post-its their expectations of the course and the objectives they have set for themselves. She also asks them to express what they think international history and methodology are. These activities allow the students to take stock of their knowledge, but also to break the ice and create a group spirit. During the 2e session, the teacher proposes the reading of a 30-page article using the survey method. Each student is given two pages of the article to read, and then each student presents the two pages that were given to him or her to read, in the order of the article. The teacher provides students with a reading guide to help them with this task.
From the 3rde session onwards, the students have defined their research topic from a list proposed by the teacher. In order to make the students active and to allow a better assimilation of the theory through practical application, during the theoretical presentation on bibliographic research, the teacher leaves a moment for the students to carry out research on their own subject according to the methods learned. They define their problematic and send it to the teacher who validates it. All the instructions concerning the work they must do are provided to the students in the form of a guide.
In order to begin the second part of the seminar, students will hand in a first version of their research, consisting of the introduction, the plan and the bibliography. They send it to the teacher who gives written feedback on this version. Based on this feedback, which is intended to ensure that the students are on the right track, they then write a first draft of their article. The paper is sent to the teacher who also makes it available to the student in charge of the oral feedback in class. From this point on, the sessions consist of 15-minute oral presentations of this first draft, followed by 10 minutes of student feedback and general feedback from the teacher. The presentations should not focus on the thematic content of their paper, but on the problems they encountered, the solutions they found and the main research results. Following their presentation, students receive oral feedback from the peer who reviewed their first draft. This feedback should be constructive and consist of 3 positive points and 3 points for improvement. The teacher also provides oral feedback on the presentation. Following this feedback and the corrections they have made, the students hand in the final version of their research paper, which must be 20,000 characters long. The final version is due during the exam session and a final version commented by the teacher is sent back to them, as well as an indicative grade (not valid administratively since it is a continuous assessment, but it allows students to better situate themselves).
In order to make the students active, the teacher also proposed a role-playing game in the form of a televised debate using the fishbowl method. Half of the class represented the audience and the other half represented the protagonists of a TV show. In addition to a presenter or mediator, 3 students defending different positions argued, helped by one person each who had the function of supporting them by searching for information on the internet when arguments were missing.
The last session was devoted to a general feedback on the seminar where students were invited to complete the online evaluation in class and share their comments and feelings if they wished.
Thoughts and advice on implementing a similar project
The teacher draws attention to the cutting of the article during the surveying activity. In the first attempts, she had printed the article and distributed 2 pages per student. However, it is wiser to be careful not to cut out sentences or paragraphs, which can reduce the student's understanding of the assigned passage.
While regular feedback throughout the process of writing their research helps students a great deal, the teacher stresses that it is important to be aware that this requires time for preparation and correction.
Finally, it is interesting to take into account the students' expectations and objectives. If they express a feeling of uncertainty, it can be useful to multiply the moments of feedback. Do not forget that if the methodology seems obvious to the teachers or researchers, it is new to the students who may be lost if one does not take the time to explain its importance and what it allows to do. To do this, it is necessary to make the material concrete, to explain, for example, how to make a bibliography, but also why it is important that everyone has the same code to unify the data and make it accessible to everyone.
Student feedback
"This seminar provides a framework within which the student can advance her understanding of the material in a constructed and logical manner. The teacher's guidance is sustained and the feedback helps to better assess her strengths and weaknesses before the final paper. In general, the seminar gives students a taste for the subject."
"The course slides on moodle are very clear and well structured. The feedback on our assignments is precise and thorough, which allows us to easily understand our areas for improvement. The feedback (even if it is sometimes negative) is never demeaning, but, on the contrary, encouraging and relevant. The follow-up is complete and useful, the teacher being always available and having advice and/or suggestions to help us achieve a good quality work.

