---
id: 97
title: "Flipped Classroom & Quiz by Enrico Chavez"
description_short: "This course has been transformed into a flipped classroom: students prepare the content before the course via Moodle. Course elements such as explanatory videos, self-assessment quizzes and practical work are provided. During the course, interactive questions are asked via the Wooclap platform."
---

## Initial situation

In 2020, after the transition to fully online teaching during the health crisis, the teaching team observed a decline in student motivation and engagement. The team wanted to change the way the course was delivered to make the students more active and to prevent them from dropping out.
The idea of implementing a flipped classroom format was already present before 2020. The teaching team had already observed this type of teaching in the same discipline with colleagues at EPFL. Having witnessed the success of this pedagogical approach and encouraged by the context of distance learning, the teaching team took the step of completely rethinking their course. The tools available at the UNIGE and the advice of the pedagogical team enabled them to make the approach a reality.

## Project implementation

In previous years, the "Statistics I" course was taught in the traditional way. Students had access to the course material and assignments via Moodle and were introduced to the course content when the instructor presented it in class. There was no evaluation or self-assessment during the semester. The final exam grade was the only feedback for the teacher regarding the students' level.
With the implementation of the flipped classroom, students receive on Moodle, one week in advance, the elements of the subject that they must prepare independently before the course. Moodle can host the course content, send group announcements to students enrolled in the course, and offer quizzes (automatically corrected) and surveys.
The items provided each week are as follows:
the list of key points around which the week's course is structured;
theoretical explanations and some examples;
several explanatory videos that cover and develop certain key points (3 to 4 video vignettes per week, each lasting 5 to 10 minutes and created with Camtasia);
a self-assessment quiz with an automatic answer key (on Moodle);
practical work.
The day before the course, the teacher consults the results of the self-assessment quiz. According to these results, he adapts the course and prepares questions on Wooclap that will be submitted to the students during the course. This data collection makes it possible to personalize each course according to the students' progress and to make it more interactive. The course is based on questions displayed on the screen that students can answer by voting on the internet (via the Wooclap platform) with their smartphone. If the rate of correct answers to a question is less than 80%, the teacher provides explanations (without revealing the correct answer) and then asks the students to form groups to discuss the question. Students then answer the same question again. Each Wooclap quiz consists of 7 to 10 questions. Students have about 2 minutes to answer each question. During the same week, a "classic" session of correction of the practical work is conducted in turn by one of the assistants.
Students can ask questions about the material during the course and after the course on SpeakUp. They also have the possibility to vote for the questions of their fellow students (thumbs up or down). In addition to a chronological view, the questions can be easily sorted according to their relevance. The teaching team can also moderate the questions. The grouping of all the questions on the same platform has allowed the teaching team to create a FAQ of the most frequent questions that students can refer to regularly. The teachers commit to answering each question within two working days.
Four times during the semester, the teaching team offers "bonus exams" on Moodle. A bonus exam consists of 7 questions and covers the concepts taught during the previous 2-3 weeks. The bonus exams allow both the students and the teacher to evaluate their level. To encourage participation in these 4 exams, they are linked to a bonus system that is taken into account in the final grade. Students can work in groups to answer the quiz, which is available throughout the day. However, each student in the course receives a different variation of the 7 questions. The nature of each question is the same, but with different numerical values that are randomly generated by the R/exams module (R is a free software environment for statistical processing and visualization).
Finally, 4 times during the semester, students are asked to participate in surveys. The results of these surveys are used to illustrate certain concepts taught in the course. The themes of these surveys, serious or unusual, are chosen in order to give concrete and realistic examples of the methods learned in the course.
To ensure the sustainability of the tools used in the course, the teaching team has created a toolbox with videos and templates for the use of all the tools used. For example, the team prepared a video on "How to create a Wooclap quiz and import it into Moodle". The goal is to keep the course in its new form, even if the teaching staff changes.

## Thoughts and advice

The teaching team is very positive about this new implementation for their course. They realize that the reflection and the implementation of the first elements to arrive at such a successful result take a lot of time and involve the whole team. However, she highly recommends the experience and feels that the investment is well worth it.
This type of project requires a large initial investment. You must be trained in the pedagogical tools and produce a substantial course material. However, the preparation is considerably reduced in subsequent years.
Not only can the material produced be reused regularly (video clips, quiz questions, etc.), but the results on student learning are significant. Through self-assessment quizzes, "bonus exams" and Wooclap quizzes taken in class, the teaching team can identify in real time the difficulties of the students and thus help them to quickly fill their gaps. She was able to observe the progress of the students on their final results, but also on the way they asked their questions in a more precise and relevant way. Another aspect appreciated by the students is the possibility to prepare each course at their own pace and in an autonomous way.
As for the videos, they were gradually created and published on various platforms. The teaching team recognizes a preference for the Youtube platform which offers a very detailed overview of the statistics of use and consultation for each video. This numerical feedback allows them to have fine-tuned feedback to adjust the content if necessary. However, she recommends posting the videos in unlisted mode so that only the students concerned can view them.

## Student feedback

> "The videos before the classes are well done and structured. You get to learn how to use R, which is helpful. Questions are easily answered. Interaction. "
> "A professor who set up good things (videos and slides before class, Wooclap during class, lots of interactivity). A well-framed course that gives the basics and allows you to do additional research in a targeted way. Concrete cases to better imitate what we learn. "
> "Doing a flipped classroom is, I think, the best approach for this course. It allows us to absorb the course properly (we can take our time). Also being able to apply the course with the "self-assessment quizzes" is really relevant to understanding the course material. "
> "I think the basics should be explained more in depth, sometimes there is not enough explanation in the slides and it is hard to understand especially with this learning system (flipped classroom). "
> "Very good concept, I personally enjoyed it very much and it helped my learning. You can feel that there is a lot of work behind the teacher and the assistants, whether it is for the videos or for the quizzes proposed each week. However, I found that some important points of the course were covered very quickly or not at all, either in the videos or during the course, which can be penalizing for the understanding of certain concepts of the course. "
> "The autoevaluation quizzes that help us see concrete problems. The bonus quizzes introduced this year are more than welcome, knowing that the final exam can be pretty hard, even when we think we are prepared."

