---
id: 93
title: "Pedagogical website & quiz of Mucyo Karemera"
description_short: Inspired by the dynamism of YouTube videos that simplify mathematical concepts, the teacher adopted a similar format for his online course during the 2020-21 academic year. Students had access to pre-recorded videos, divided into short and dynamic chapters, embellished with interactive animations, to make the material more digestible, pleasant and accessible.
videos:
  - https://www.youtube.com/embed/cw3cKoQDyAA
---

## Initial situation

The experience of fully distance learning during the Spring 2020 lock-in revealed that the zoom meeting arrangements for a complex mathematics course were far too long and tiring for students. The teacher, aware that learning mathematics is demanding, wanted to set up a system that would make the course as accessible and enjoyable as possible for students. He found the dynamism of famous Youtube videos delivering explanations of complex mathematical concepts inspiring. Having grasped the type of videos that make them so successful, the teacher understood the need to divide the material into several chapters and punctuate them with animations to deliver the material in a digestible format for a student audience. In addition, he wanted to encourage students to work on the material on a regular basis and to practice. To this end, he set up a series of exercises and a weekly quiz system.

## Project implementation

The project is set in the very special context of the 2020-21 academic year, which is full of many new experiences: the students are in their 1st year, and for most of them it's their 1st experience at university; the teacher is teaching for the 1st time to such a large group; it's the first time the course is being taught entirely by distance learning; the teacher is delivering the material for the first time, in a hybrid format, and discovering audio-visual production at the same time.

With the switch to fully distance learning in 2020-21, the course is delivered in a hybrid format in a flipped classroom modality. The entire course is delivered over just over a week. The teacher prepares the course material in video format. The material is broken down into several videos of a maximum of 20 minutes each, to make it easier to digest and enable learners to work through the material in stages. All the videos cover a particular theme and are no longer than 45 min to 1 hour in total. The teacher provides the course videos on Tuesday mornings, as well as the pdf course support (used in the video). All of this is available on the course website, developed entirely by the teaching team. The course website is organized by work week, making all the material accessible to students. Students are instructed to watch the videos and get to grips with the material over the course of a week. The teacher also provides a series of exercises. The series of exercises consists of a quiz like the ones the student will have to take during the assessment and classic exercises (not included in the test) for practice. The correction of the exercise series and quiz is delivered the following week.

On the following Tuesday, the teacher gives an online class on Zoom, reduced to 1 hour (instead of the usual 2 hours), so that students can ask questions and discuss the material submitted the previous week. The session is recorded and posted on the course's Moodle space. An additional seminar is given on the same day to continue asking questions of an assistant. Students must then upload their answers to the quiz (from the previous week) to Moodle by the same evening. The following day, a new session is proposed by an assistant to correct the previous day's quiz and discuss the answers and their understanding.

The course's Moodle space thus contains all the live sessions recorded for a given course, the quizzes associated with the course, the recording of the correction session, and a question-and-answer forum. The course assessment is made up of all the weekly quizzes posted on Moodle, a continuous assessment exam taken mid-semester and the final exam in the form of MCQs taken on Moodle with an attendance check on Zoom. Each part of the assessment is weighted, and the weighting of all the tests is in the student's favor for the final grade. In short, quizzes and continuous assessment only count if they improve the final grade.

In addition to their own videos, some weeks the teacher offered additional videos to supplement the material. The videos were either strongly recommended, as in week VIII, or optional, as in week IX.

## Thoughts and advice

After one semester, the teacher notes that setting up such a project, and specifically in the context of the 2020-21 academic year, is particularly time-consuming. Creating and editing videos on your own for the first time, without any particular training or technical support, while running a course in the form of a flipped classroom and in an entirely remote modality, is particularly taxing when you're doing it for the first time. He recommends not underestimating the time needed to prepare the material in advance. To ensure a regular flow of the course, and remain available to learners as much as possible, he recommends preparing all videos and montages before the start of the semester. You should also prepare the course syllabus, the schedule for the whole semester, and upload all the necessary material (videos, pdf slides, sets of exercises, corrections, etc.) to the platform dedicated to the course. While this work is a good long-term investment (once the material is ready, it can be reused), the workload involved should not be underestimated.

As the teacher works with a Mac computer, he opted for Screenflow software (produced by telestream and available exclusively for Mac). He equipped himself with a top-quality microphone, special fixtures for video recording and an IPad tablet for recording and commenting on examples of calculations made during video recording. The software allows students to record themselves, display course slides, link the tablet in parallel to retrieve graphic content, insert animations and other media objects (images, animated gifs, other videos, etc.), and finally edit all the elements.

With a group of over 600 students, the teacher initially tested Speakup to collect questions, but the audience tended to ask a large number of administrative questions related to the course and not directly related to the subject matter. Sessions were regulated naturally and spontaneously on Zoom. Unable to answer all questions, the audience was invited to post their questions on a Moodle forum, and other students were invited to respond if they knew the answer. Course assistants checked the answers all the same. Although the workload was considerable for the teaching team, everyone got an answer to their question at the end of the course, before the final exam at the end of the semester. However, the teacher would like to find a better way of dividing up the interactive and work sessions.

As the weeks went by, the teacher improved the quality of the videos and enriched them. The inverted classroom modality and the use of video media was much appreciated by the students, making them particularly attentive to the subject matter. They detected any errors in the quizzes. Their feedback was important during the discussion sessions, and their activity was sometimes so intense, particularly with regard to their questions, that the teaching team was not always able to cope with the overload. However, the teaching team insisted on maintaining this course format right to the end, as their aim was to reassure students in this uncertain context and provide them with a form of benevolence to encourage them in their learning, which in their view also involves the regularity of the course format.

As far as videos are concerned, the teacher realized that offering videos to complement his course was less attractive to students. In his opinion, the impact is not the same if the video content is delivered by the teacher himself or by an external speaker. He felt that the video's appeal was greater when he gave the examples himself, which is why he equipped himself with a tablet to incorporate his own commented examples.

As far as assessment is concerned, the introduction of continuous assessment in the middle of the semester enabled him to test the final exam format in vivo. He was able to test the randomization of questions to avoid fraud: the question settings offered more total possibilities for questionnaires than for the number of students. In addition, continuous testing enabled us to better calibrate the final exam (20 questions for a 1-hour exam were too many). It's also worth noting that throughout the course, and as part of the series of exercises on offer, the teacher indicated each time to the audience the type of questions that would or wouldn't be included in the exam.

## Student feedback

> " Very committed teacher who loves his subject and communicates with the students ; Very didactic videos ; try well compiled courses, adequate for learning ; Assistants also very involved in the corrections ; weekly quiz system, requiring regular work ; Very responsive to students' comments on his course”
> "The weeks are repetitive, that is, you always have the same thing to do each week (watch the videos, take the MCQs and occasionally take the seminars if needed), it personally allows me to have a sort of routine that allows me to always know what I need to do each week, which allows me to work efficiently. The graded MCQs, but graded very low, allow me to motivate myself to practice, without having to stress/discourage myself too much if I get a bad grade on an MCQ."
> "The videos are clear, concise, don't give unnecessary details and their lengths are ideal. I especially appreciate the continuous tests, which not only help to raise the overall average, but more importantly to stay current week after week. The exercise series are well suited to the video content."
> "Excellent choice of pedagogical tools, to be reproduced in other courses! Clearly, the quiz system is very stimulating to keep the thread of the course throughout the semester and implement the concepts little by little. The course videos are very well done, the slides are clean, frankly hats off!"
> "Enthusiasm and lightness of the teacher. Willingness to make us learn."
> "The length of the videos (short) make it easy to watch. The course is concise and accurate."
> "The class is much more fun than last year. It's more enjoyable to learn math with short, clear videos and the cheerfulness of the teacher."
> "The final exam: if possible give us more time or reduce the number of questions"
> "In the videos to watch, more concrete examples with numbers should be given to know how to apply the formulas given and to understand the notation of these formulas."
> "We should demonstrate with examples in the slides, it would really help to give concreteness to concepts that are sometimes too abstract."
> "When abstract concepts are discussed, it would be nice to have an example demonstrated in the videos each time so that we can make the link between theory and practice. Also, it would be nice if the assistants could redo the corrections as before because not everyone can take the class on Tuesday, personally I work, and listening to a recording again is not only very boring, but I don't have the opportunity to ask my questions."

